---
id: welcome-to-motorjs
title: Welcome to Motor JS
author: Luke Reilly
author_title: Motor JS Co-Author
author_url: https://github.com/lureilly1
author_image_url: https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/19709287?v=4
tags: [motor-js, qlik sense mashups]
---


Welcome to Motor JS. The React Framework for Qlik Sense mashups.

We've built this library to provide an easy solution for building Qlik Sense Mashups in React. 
More than a series of components and charts, Motor JS is a complete framework for building mashups with ease.

<!--truncate-->

The library enables <b>easy connection to a Qlik engine</b>, a <b>theming framework</b> which propogates throughout your dashboard, 
<b>interactive charts</b>, <b>components</b> such as a Filter and Search and <b>re-usable React hooks</b> for the easy creation of data sets off the engine.
<br />
<br />
In this post, I will write a bit about the architecture and technology choices we've made whilst building this library.
<br />
<br />

### React

The library is built in React and supports Typescript out of the box. There is currently no support for other frameworks like Angular and Vue.

After initially considering an approach using web components (with https://stenciljs.com/), we decided on React. 
This ended up being an obvious choice for us given React's popularity and our team's skillsets. 

It has also enabled us to make us of some great React features, which are fundamental to how the library works.


#### React Hooks

>Building your own Hooks lets you extract component logic into reusable functions.

A lot of the concepts needed when interacting with the Qlik engine are needed across multiple components. 
Particularly around the loading of data, we have build re-usable hooks to handle this complexity for you. 
This are used by our components and can be used independently when building your own custom objects.

For example, you can pass in an array of Columns into our useHyperCube hook and it'll return a HyperCube from the engine. Easy.


#### Context API

>Context provides a way to pass data through the component tree without having to pass props down manually at every level.

We heavily leverage React's Context API for data which is needed across your entire dashboard. Qlik Mashups are a perfect use cse for this, 
where connection to the Qlik engine is needed across your entire dashboard.

Just wrap your React app in our top level <b>Motor</b> component and you're good to go. Check out the Getting Started page of our docs for more information on this.

Our <b>theming framework</b> also leverages React Context. Set your brand colors and customise components in our easy to use theme object, architected using CSS in JS.









